Interviewer: Both. Candidate: What are the most important features for the product? Interviewer: Ability to make a post and see friends’ news feed. Candidate: Is the news feed sorted in reverse chronological order or a particular order? The particular order means each post is given a different weight. For instance, posts from your close friends are more important than posts from a group. Interviewer: To keep things simple, let us assume the feed is sorted by reverse chronological order. Candidate: How many friends can a user have? Interviewer: 5000 Candidate: What is the traffic volume? Interviewer: 10 million daily active users (DAU) Candidate: Can feed contain images, videos, or just text? Interviewer: It can contain media files, including both images and videos. Above are some sample questions that you can ask your interviewer. It is important to understand the requirements and clarify ambiguities Step 2 - Propose high-level design and get buy-in In this step, we aim to develop a high-level design and reach an agreement with the interviewer on the design. It is a great idea to collaborate with the interviewer during the process. • Come up with an initial blueprint for the design. Ask for feedback. Treat your interviewer as a teammate and work together. Many good interviewers love to talk and get involved. • Draw box diagrams with key components on the whiteboard or paper. This might include clients (mobile/web), APIs, web servers, data stores, cache, CDN, message queue, etc. • Do back-of-the-envelope calculations to evaluate if your blueprint fits the scale constraints. Think out loud. Communicate with your interviewer if back-of-the-envelope is necessary before diving into it. If possible, go through a few concrete use cases. This will help you frame the high-level design. It is also likely that the use cases would help you discover edge cases you have not yet considered. Should we include API endpoints and database schema here? This depends on the problem. For large design problems like “Design Google search engine”, this is a bit of too low level. For a problem like designing the backend for a multi-player poker game, this is a fair game. Communicate with your interviewer. Example Let us use “Design a news feed system” to demonstrate how to approach the high-level design. Here you are not required to understand how the system actually works. All the details will be explained in Chapter 11. At the high level, the design is divided into two flows: feed publishing and news feed building. • Feed publishing: when a user publishes a post, corresponding data is written into cache/database, and the post will be populated into friends’ news feed.