Step 1 - Understand the problem and establish design scope As revealed in Figure 14-1, besides watching a video, you can do a lot more on YouTube. For example, comment, share, or like a video, save a video to playlists, subscribe to a channel, etc. It is impossible to design everything within a 45- or 60-minute interview. Thus, it is important to ask questions to narrow down the scope. Candidate: What features are important? Interviewer: Ability to upload a video and watch a video. Candidate: What clients do we need to support? Interviewer: Mobile apps, web browsers, and smart TV. Candidate: How many daily active users do we have? Interviewer: 5 million Candidate: What is the average daily time spent on the product? Interviewer: 30 minutes. Candidate: Do we need to support international users? Interviewer: Yes, a large percentage of users are international users. Candidate: What are the supported video resolutions? Interviewer: The system accepts most of the video resolutions and formats. Candidate: Is encryption required? Interviewer: Yes Candidate: Any file size requirement for videos? Interviewer: Our platform focuses on small and medium-sized videos. The maximum allowed video size is 1GB. Candidate: Can we leverage some of the existing cloud infrastructures provided by Amazon, Google, or Microsoft? Interviewer: That is a great question. Building everything from scratch is unrealistic for most companies, it is recommended to leverage some of the existing cloud services. In the chapter, we focus on designing a video streaming service with the following features: • Ability to upload videos fast • Smooth video streaming • Ability to change video quality • Low infrastructure cost • High availability, scalability, and reliability requirements • Clients supported: mobile apps, web browser, and smart TV Back of the envelope estimation The following estimations are based on many assumptions, so it is important to communicate with the interviewer to make sure she is on the same page. • Assume the product has 5 million daily active users (DAU). • Users watch 5 videos per day. • 10% of users upload 1 video per day. • Assume the average video size is 300 MB. • Total daily storage space needed: 5 million * 10% * 300 MB = 150TB